hey what up this video is made in
response to some challenging questions
posed for vegans politically by a guy
named David J Kelly who is now an ex
vegan I also think he's an idiot
however to give credit where it's due he
is raising important questions and 99%
of you vegans on the Internet
don't like you know this video is going
to consist of a critique and a
constructive response to the arguments
put forth by David J Kelly you can click
on the link I'm gonna provide below this
video it's a waste of six minutes of
your life you know I think he's a
complete idiot but if you look at the
videos made on most of these channels
from people we respect and celebrate as
leaders in the vegan community they're
neither asking or answering any of these
questions they're not dealing with
political or ethical aspects of veganism
at all so in some sense I respect them
and I appreciate the opportunity to talk
about something a lot more substantial
than what you ate for breakfast this
morning or how much fun it is to go
swimming jumping off a cliff in copán
yang or fill in the blank
um picking out three issues from this
video I'm gonna react to one is that he
uses the words realistic and sustainable
throughout the video in an unexamined
way and this is something in politics
you got to learn to watch you got to
learn to jump on people for this kind of
weakness hahaha he says it is not
sustainable
though defining it without explaining
why that somehow it's unsustainable to
eat absolutely zero meat as if
implicitly it would be more sustainable
to eat the type of diet he's suggesting
which is what we would call a reduce
Italian diet it's less meat but not zero
meat he's actually proposing eating meat
one day a week with some other caveats
hahahaha so sustainability has two
dimensions here one is ecological
environmental sustainability right and
you can even wrap it up with economic
sustainability why would that be more
ecologically sustainable and I don't
even have to spell it out there's no
argument there there's no argument that
is more environmentally sustainable to
eat some meat
rather than none especially we talk
about a minority of people like vegans
we're talking about you know a few tens
of thousands of people were a tiny
minority globally why would you advise
those people to shift so the ecological
argument is non-starter there's a second
dimension to sustainability right and
that's psychological that's what he
really means he's suggesting you that
psychologically it's more sustainable to
have a little bit rather than none at
all why are parents so alarmed when they
find out their children are using
cocaine hey let's flip it why were you
as a child of any age be alarmed when
you find out your parents are using
cocaine what if it's just a little bit
what if it's just one day a week what if
it's just a few times a month or a few
times a year a little bit is the hardest
thing to sustain in the world that's why
we all advocate zero cocaine
we don't say use less we don't say use
it in moderation
we don't say use it once in a while and
when you do the research on this I won't
mention why I did end up looking at this
one point one of the least harmful drugs
physiologically that people use is
heroin heroin doesn't have the kind of
negative effects in your body that many
other habits do in our society but
nobody in their right mind would tell
you that a little bit is more
sustainable than not at all okay and I'm
not going to spell for you I think you
guys know why
okay the reality is in terms of what why
would it be unrealistic for me to say
you know what I went and visited a grade
five classroom yesterday a whole bunch
of little kids who are all in grade five
and I thought I wish that none of you
ever even try heroin I hope that you all
go through your whole lives with zero
heroin use why would that be unrealistic
why would that be unstable why would
anyone say to me oh come on you should
be realistic a little bit of heroin here
and there doesn't do any harm now on a
scientific and medical level believe it
or not there is an argument for that or
you can just measure brain damage and
effects in your kidneys and whatever and
say you know what human body can
tolerate you know heroin here and there
psychologically if that's the kind of
sustainability we're talking about no no
no homeboy zero is sustainable a little
bit a little bit really is worse than
none at all he goes from this into an
argument on vegans being politically
inflexible and intolerant toward anyone
who is non vegan well there's certainly
cause for alarm there's certainly plenty
of idiots on the internet who make what
he says here are sound reasonable but I
disagree on this channel in many
different videos I've made a political
comparison to quitting smoking and to
political movements that are trying to
get everyone to quit smoking let's say
I'm a member of such a movement now I'm
not and in many countries in the world
that's really in the past I mean
normally a lot of the campaigns to get
government's to oppose smoking are
already over because they've achieved
their their ends and it's it's not as
highly politicized anymore it's widely
accepted that smoking is a bad thing
that everyone should either minimize
smoking or quit smoking does that mean
that on an individual basis if I have a
friend who's a smoker by know someone
who smokes air at this does that mean
I'm going to treat them like a jerk
does that mean I'm gonna be cruel to
them personally or politically does that
mean I'm gonna persecute them does that
mean I'm gonna want to physically hurt
them if I have a friend who smoke
cigarettes and at different times my
behalf I have had friends who were
smokers I can be their friend
I can respect their opinion I can
respect them as a human being and still
every single time they smoke cigarettes
I regard them as doing something wrong I
don't think it's a mixed bag I don't
think that smoking a little bit is okay
and smoking a lot is a problem no I want
my friends to smoke zero
I would like ideally the whole world the
smoke zero that's a goal I want to
achieve and politically in socially many
societies not all but in many Western
countries their governments will openly
say yeah ideally in the future our
target is to have a zero percent rate of
smokers whether or not they're really
doing what it takes to achieve that is
another story but they'd like to see
smoking reduced and eliminated that does
not mean I am your enemy if you are a
smoker
it really doesn't yeah it's a subtle
it's a subtle but obvious point I guess
I can leave it at that but the fat and
again there's no moral ambiguity in that
smoking is bad if you smoked two
cigarettes a cigarette today you did
something bad
but that doesn't mean I hate you that
doesn't mean I'm angry at you and the
other hand if I'm friends with you I'm
never gonna say to you that smoking is
okay I think that each day that goes
past
you're wasting an opportunity to quit
smoking you really should
for your own sake and to make the world
a better place and in so many ways but
still that does not mean I think the
solution of this problem is beating you
oppressing you putting you in prison
totalitarian measures or any of these
other ideas that he attaches to the
simple notion of a binary distinction
between right and wrong
yes smoking is wrong it's a hundred
percent wrong every time you do it it's
wrong it's not that a little bit as
though
okay it's never okay nevertheless I can
have a compassionate and a strategic
approach to how we're gonna bring about
that social change and look I've never
been a smoker but I mean the studies you
read on the on the addictive effects of
smoking so I think cigarettes are much
much harder to quit than meat dairy
leather
nobody cuz nobody goes into withdrawal
when they quit leather and that's stop
wearing wool you don't get the shakes
you know when you think about it in many
ways the struggle to get people to quit
smoking is much more difficult than a
struggle to get them to quit meat right
even if there were no health benefits
that would still be true but there's a
positive sense the 21st century that
that's a struggle we're all a part of
again it's not in all countries in the
world it's possible you're living in one
of the countries where people are still
encouraged by their government to smoke
cigarettes and people don't want to
admit that it's a problem or what have
you but most of the scientifically
advanced world now in a sense the debate
is over about whether smoking is good or
bad and the question now about the ways
and means to bring about that kind of
change and yes that is politically what
I want with veganism that's the progress
I want to see and there's no reason to
think there's a dictatorship involved in
that and if you look around at the
governments of the world and say which
have been the most effective which have
been the least effective in reducing
cigarette smoking I don't think you
would find historical that dictatorships
have been especially successful you know
I think you could look on a
country-by-country basis who has really
had the most effective government
measures to try to bring that about but
yes it would it would make the better
the world a better place if you quit
eating meat it would make the world a
better place if governments anywhere
took up policies to reduce and eliminate
meat consumption and yes there's a
binary distinction each and every time
you eat meat you're doing something
immoral and everyone I know eats me
I have no vegan friends in real life so
me all my friends currently in it you
know off speak you to be meat so again
this idea
um that there's some other kind of
conflict in place and that it's nonsense
I don't know but he must know it is he
this guy was a vegan for nine years
on some level I don't think he didn't
have any kind of snappy comeback to to
what I've said out here um thirdly and
finally out of many wrongheaded answers
wrongheaded reasons he gives for why
he's gone back from being vegan to
eating meat after nine years he talks
about anthropomorphism he talks about
vegans projecting human attributes onto
animals and now this is somewhere where
my version of veganism is really very
different from all you pet loving you
know dog cuddling vegans alright I've
been very clear on this channel that I
also regard the domestication of animals
as immoral okay and I do believe that
when you take a dog and try to train it
to behave in human society that is
anthropomorphism I think human beings
who own pets who own companion animals
are projecting human characteristics and
human qualities on animals and that is
part of the problem however what this
fellow David J Kelly has suggested is
that all veganism is based on
anthropomorphism that's dead wrong
if I respect a lion I can simply respect
a lion as a lion I don't need it to
behave in human society I don't need it
to be cute or cuddly I don't need it to
like me or love me I don't need it to
appreciate me I don't need to feed it
treats or snacks and have it act
grateful you know the relationship to a
pet involves some very psychologically
disturbing aspects you know and I've had
all these hell these ridiculous excuses
sent to me by emails people claiming
that they have a symbol symbiotic
relation with their pets symbiosis you
kidding me you tied with two animals
that have a symbiotic relationship or
one animal cuts off the balls of the
other animals you know spaying and
neutering your pet castration you call
that symbiosis lookups impose I've
gotten I have gotten from vegans the
same stupid excuses that meat eaters
make for eating meat in very close
parallel made by vegans for pet
ownership there is possible hillier
video but yes I think that pet ownership
does involve anthropomorphism and that
that is part of the problem but if I
simply look at a wild elephant and in
the whole world there are very few
places where wild elephants still exist
I was watching the last wild elephants
disappear in Laos and Myanmar I could
say a lot more about that I don't want
this elephant to amuse me I don't want
it to entertain me I don't want it to
reflect any of my human characteristics
I'm not looking for that in this
elephant I can simply respect its
autonomy and independence and not want
to disturb it I can simply want human
beings to leave enough forests intact so
that this animal does not get driven to
extinction right so again the wilderness
based paradigm the habitat conservation
paradigm approaches those issues in a
completely different way and I'm not
asking you to stop eating pork because a
pet can be cute and cuddly because a pig
can be just as much of a pet as a dog to
me that's completely the wrong way to
approach the issue and that does fall
prey to this argument that David J Kelly
is presented if your argument is don't
eat pigs because they will suffer as
much as a dog don't eat pigs because
pigs can be a cute and cuddly pet if you
love them and care for them if you
project your human characteristics onto
them no no no no no a pet is completely
different from the way an animal paves
in the wild if a wild boar is out there
I got fan mail from someone who lived in
so this days a woman in the Philippines
she had been attacked by a wild boar she
was writing in to me about that what
it's like being attacked by a wild boar
she wrote in to me about being attacked
by packs of feral dogs you know she was
this is the one person writing Anthony
Moore it's just like all I can say back
is yeah I know exactly what you're
talking about wild wild dogs feral dogs
wild boars and you know she was saying
this this vegan stuff about respecting
rats and never killing rats well back in
the Philippines you know to actually
wake up with rats biting through your
skin with rats gnawing at you to you
know lift up the mattress of your bed
and see underneath that there were rats
you know there's a nest of rats giving
birth and breeding you know yeah there
there are self-defense issues there's
you know nature red in tooth and claw
there are all these contradictions that
we as vegans have to have to deal with
the point is a willingness based
approach means my argument doesn't rest
on pigs being cute and cuddly it doesn't
rest on asking you to sympathize with
the suffering of a pig in the same way
as yourself sympathize with the
suffering of a dog I'm not asking for
that I'm not asking you to sympathize
with rats
my point is rats should exist out in the
woods not in my bedroom pigs should
exist out in the woods where they are
terrifying to human beings they're not
cute and cuddly at all and I want you to
let those pigs exist as pigs not as a
plaything for human beings not as an
accoutrement to human civilization I
want you to respect the pig as a pig not
as something with human values or
characteristics projecting onto it not
as something with human emotions
projected onto it right in the same way
that we respect a lion without imagining
that it really has any shall we say
common ground with ourselves